So with the basics now set up about the elements we want to use in our HTML file and the styling of these
elements,
I now want to access the camera. That is an interesting part to start with in my opinion
and for that, we need access to this video element and to this canvas element.
Now the idea is the following,
I want to stream a live picture of the device camera to this video element.
So it's going to be a video, not just an image,
we're not just taking a static image, we're showing the video here in the web browser
and then we'll use the canvas to basically freeze that image whenever we click the capture button.
Why do I use this approach?
Well, let me start from the opposite direction.
You could just use this input picker and if you tap that on let's say an iPhone, you will automatically
get an interface provided by the iPhone which allows you to select the image by either taking one
using the native device camera and the native camera app or to pick one from the file system, so from the
gallery.
That's of course nice and you could absolutely use that, by the way it's presenting this set up because
we're accepting only images here.
However it would be even nicer if we could embed this full experience into our web app, so that the
user doesn't have to leave our web app to take a picture
and this is exactly what I want to do here,
that's why we need both a place to stream the video whilst the user is basically calibrating his camera
and looking to get a good picture
and then the canvas to actually take that picture and the button of course to trigger that event.
So that's how we use these three elements and we'll do this in the feed.js file which is responsible
for managing this HTML file here.
So for that, I'll add new variables at the top to get access to the player, the canvas and to this button.
So the video player will be this element, the video element.
So with query selector here, I could simply select videos and it's the only one but I can also
use player because it has the ID player, as you can see here, ID player,
the canvas has the ID canvas so we can use that there.
And that's exactly what I'll do,
I'll copy that and rename the other one canvas element, whatever you like and use the ID canvas
and finally I need to get access to the button and also the image picker because we want to show that
if we got no access to the camera.
So the button first, that's the capture button, that's the ID,
so let's get access to that. I'll name it capture button here too and use capture button here,
so the ID we set up in the HTML file, that's the capture button. Oh it's btn, so good that I
looked, btn,
that's the ID of the button
and now for the image picker here, we got the ID image picker.
So we'll copy that and I'll create one more variable which I'll name image picker and enter that ID name
here.
So I'm selecting all these elements here by ID.
One last thing I'll also fetch is access to this whole area for the image picker because I also want
to hide this
h6 tag here, so I'll also get access to pick image.
So that's the last thing, I'll name it image picker area maybe, get access to query selector and then
pick by the ID, pick image.
So with these elements, I'll now work, again it's the video element,
the canvas, the button, the image picker input and the div surrounding the image picker input and
its heading.
So in my open create post modal where I basically open it by sliding it up, that's where I also want
to initialize my media.
So I'll create a new function which I'll name initialize media because here I want to initialize the camera
or the image picker depending on the features the given device supports.
Now for that, I of course need to do this or I want to do this in a progressive way,
so I want to enable the camera in a progressive way, that it works on as many devices as possible
and I will try this right after we opened that modal.
Now let's find out how we can initialize the media and get access to the camera on as many devices as
possible in the next lecture.